.Dd April 13, 2018
.Dt VOID.BOOT 7
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm void.boot
.Nd Void Linux bootup process
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Ss BUNDLES
Bundles are a set of atomic services
.Po
.Sx ONESHOTS
or
.Sx LONGRUNS
.Pc
and other bundles.
.Ss ONESHOTS
.Ss LONGRUNS
.Sh BOOT SCRIPTS
.Bl -tag -width 11n -compact
.It Xr init 8
process initialization
.It rc.init
daemon and service initialization
.It rc.shutdown
shutdown process initialization
.It rc.finish
shutdown process finalization
.It rc.initrd
shutdown process finalization using the initramfs
.El
.Sh DEFAULT SERVICES
.Ss TARGETS
The following services are bundles that act as boot targets:
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It ok-init
Early system initialization.
.It ok-local
.It ok-default
.El
.Pp
.Ss INIT SERVICES
The following services are bundles that act as early boot targets:
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It init-urandom
Load/Save the random seed.
.It init-hostname
Set the hostname.
.It init-dev
Device initialization using
.Xr udevd 1 ,
.Xr mdev 1
or another suitable implementation.
.It init-tty
Setup virtual consoles.
.It init-sysctl
Apply kernel parameters from
.Pa /etc/sysctl.d/*.conf ,
.Pa /run/sysctl.d/*.conf ,
.Pa /usr/lib/sysctl.d/*.conf ,
and
.Pa /etc/sysctl.conf .
.It init-dirs
.It mount-dev
Mount the
.Pa /dev
filesystem.
.It mount-proc
Mount the
.Pa /proc
filesystem.
.It mount-sys
Mount the
.Pa /sys
filesystem.
.It mount-cgroups
.It mount-cgroups-base
Mount the
.Pa /sys/fs/cgroup
filesystem.
.It mount-cgroups-sub
Mount the
.Pa /sys/fs/cgroup/*
filesystems.
.It mount-rw
Remount the root
filesystem
.Pq Pa /
read-write.
.El
.Sh BOOTUP
.Bd -literal

init -+- rc.init -( ok-default || rescue shell )
      `- s6-svscan

ok-default -+- ok-init -.
            |           |- mount-dev
            |           |- mount-proc
            |           |- mount-sys
            |           |- mount-cgroups -+- mount-cgroups-base
            |           |                 `- mount-cgroups-sub
            |           |- mount-rw
            |           |- init-urandom
            |           |- init-hostname
            |           |- init-dev
            |           |- init-tty
            |           |- init-sysctl
            |           `- init-dirs
            `- ok-local
.Ed
.Sh AUTHORS
.An Duncan Overbruck Aq Mt mail@duncano.de
